Nobody uses allays anymore, but they
should because they have a secret use
that makes them more useful now than
they ever were. Let me explain. Everyone
knows allays pick up items for you,
which can be somewhat helpful for
sorting items. But since the copper
golem came out and sorts items way
better, people have abandoned their
allays, but allays are still super
useful for transporting mobs because of
the chase the skies update. Transporting
mobs is always a hassle, and chase the
skies made it much easier, but also much
slower. This is because you used to be
able to fly with an elytra with mobs led
to you, which was fast but hard because
if you flew wrong, the lead would break.
But in Chase the Skies, Mojang removed
this by making the lead break instantly
when you use a firework and replaced it
with the Happy Ghast, which makes
transporting mobs easy but extremely
slow. But there's an easy way to
transport mobs much faster because
Mojang let you lead mobs to other mobs
in this update. And if you give an allay
an item, it will follow you around
pretty quickly as long as you stay
within 64 blocks of it. And if you lead
mobs to the allay, you can fly with your
elytra and have the allay bring the mobs
around really quickly.